The purpose of prison is not only to punish but also to rehabilitate offenders and ensure that they are able to reintegrate into society and live better lives. With the high prevalence of mental health issues among inmates, in order to insure offenders rehabilitate, an efficient mental health system is required. Looking at the current condition of the U.S. prison system, it is clear that  we do not have an efficient mental health system in place. The mental health concerns among inmates also affects society as  mentally ill inmates are released without ability to reintegrate into society, and they can pose a threat to anyone. The concerns mainly stem from the lack of attention given to the causes that lead to a poor  mental health system in prison such as, mental health screening tests, the prison environment, attitudes of prison staff, and medical procedures of diagnosis. While the lack of funding in prison is portrayed as the most common cause of poor mental health system, more focus to other causes allows for a deeper understanding of the true causes of poor mental health system. 
One of the main causes of poor mental health system is the ineffective mental screening tests that do not accurately determine whether an inmate is mentally ill and it cannot accurately determine  the specific disorder that the inmate is suffering from. The purpose of mental screening tests is to find out if an inmate has a mental illness, and if he or she does, what exactly is that specific mental illness. It is logical to design the mental health screening test to follow that purpose, otherwise complications may occur. However, in reality the true purpose is “to gauge the security risk of a new inmate at the institution” (Gonzalez 2329). This also presents ethical conflicts, since one of the reasons mentally ill are imprisoned is so they can get better, although it seems that their health is of no concern with purpose of mental health screening tests. Prison administrators should  be concerned about the safety of inmates and prison employees, however, the security risk an inmates posses can be determined by their behaviour and through screenings test not specifically designed to assess such risks. This purpose creates a complication that could harm an inmate because an inmate who is a risk to security and not mentally ill will test to be a mentally ill because the tests are designed to find a security risk and not mental illness. In the very serious matters of mental illness, prison administrators need to be careful of the effects of simple variances that can negatively impact inmates. There is another concern regarding mental health screening tests besides purpose of these tests, and it is the relation between medication continuity and the screening tests. Gonzalez’s study found that “screening was not related to medication continuity independent of having seen a medical professional.” Another concern regarding screening tests is there inaccuracy in determining whether an inmate is mentally ill. This issue is particularly highlighted by the fact that “among inmates who received at least some treatment, sixty-nine percent did not have an illness” (Martin 19). Analyses of the screening results revealed that “there are more inmates who are not ill but screen positive” (19). Another fact that adds to the inaccuracy of mental health screening tests is that “additional one hundred and fourty nine inmates without illness who had clinical contacts, despite screening negative.”(19)   Inaccurate results of screening tests can have many negative consequences. If the results of the test are negative even though an inmate is actually ill, his or her time in prison cause more deterioration of their mental health  as the poor living conditions and isolation can negatively affect mental health. It can be argued that it is in fact better for a mentally ill inmate 
